# Digital Scholarship Portfolio: Tess Smith-Laskowski

Welcome to my online portfolio for IASC 2P02!

## Interactive Study Guide

Explore my interactive study guide [here](2P02InteractiveStudyGuide.html).

## Interactive Genealogy

Explore my interactive genealogy [here](InteractiveTimeline.html).

# Speculative Fiction

## Totally Rad Tweeting

Amanda is a high school student in 1995. Today at school, her friend Josh told her about a rad new website called Twitter. Once she got home, Amanda went to the basement into the computer room and fired up her computer. She then connected to the internet and listened to the horrible dial-up noises while she waited to access the world wide web. Next, she opened Internet Explorer and typed www.twitter.com into the address bar. When the page had finished loading, Amanda began to make her new account. She chose @amandaxfiles79 to be her Twitter name, since The X-Files was her favourite TV show. Amanda also had the option of choosing a profile picture for her Twitter account. She didn’t own a webcam or a digital camera, but her friend Brittany did take some pictures of her last week at the skate park. Amanda thought one of these pictures would make an awesome profile picture, but she would have to find time to get her film developed and then scan the picture with her printer to get it onto her computer. She also remembered her parents warning her about the dangerous predators that could be on the internet, so she decided to look for a picture on the ‘net instead. She went to Yahoo and browsed through various categories until she found a cool picture of an alien from The X-Files to download, then once it was finally finished downloading she set it as her Twitter profile picture and completed making her account.  

Now that Amanda had her brand-new Twitter account set up, she needed to follow other users. She pulled out a piece of notepad paper where Josh had written his user name, @6joshstarwars6, and followed him and a few more of her friends that also had Twitter accounts. There were even Twitter accounts for some of her favourite bands and celebrities, like No Doubt, Backstreet Boys, and Jennifer Aniston! She wished that her best friend Marissa had a twitter account, but Marissa’s family didn’t have internet at home. Amanda started to scroll through her Twitter feed and read all of the awesome Tweets that her friends were posting, a few people even included pictures in their tweets but she found this kind of annoying because they took forever to load. Next, Amanda decided to check out something Josh told her about called “hashtags”. This was apparently how you could look at tweets that are all about one particular topic. First she checked out the hashtag #xfiles, and discovered a whole bunch of tweets from other superfans like her! One user named @xfilesfan1964 had some hella good points about the ending of last week’s episode, so Amanda decided to follow them. She remembered her parents’ warning about strangers on the internet though, so she reminded herself to be cautious if any strangers tried to talk to her since she saw that users could respond to each other’s tweets. She then went through hashtags for some of her other interests, such as #thesimpsons, #photography, #movies, #music, and #videogames. She even looked through #news, but a lot of the tweets were just users sharing their dumb opinions about current events, so she decided to go back to her timeline and just watch the news on TV later that night. At least then she wouldn’t have to wait for every tweet to load! 

When she got back to her Twitter timeline Amanda saw that Josh had tweeted something really funny about Beavis and Butthead, so she started typing out a reply to his tweet. Just as the text field had finished loading, Amanda’s mom called down to her from upstairs that she needed to make a phone call. “Just a minute!”, responded Amanda, as she wrote out her reply to Josh and then disconnected from the internet so that her mom could use the phone. Amanda had a totally rad time using Twitter, so she hoped that her mom wouldn’t be on the phone for hours so she could go back on it again! 


## Micro Essay

A key idea in my story is that if Twitter were invented in 1995 using 1995 technology, using it would be different due to the less advanced web technology that existed in the early days of the internet. This is seen in the story with how the character Amanda is using a dial-up internet connection which was much slower than the internet that we use Twitter with today, and could not be used at the same time as the phone. It would be more difficult to do something as simple as setting a profile picture because digital cameras and webcams were far less popular so not everyone had a way to get photographs onto a computer, and there were less websites and internet users in general. 

This key idea engages in media archaeological thinking by exploring the ‘vintage internet’ concept which demonstrates the practice of starting in the middle when thinking about media archaeology rather than in the present or in the past. The concept of the vintage internet looks at how modern websites would be different if they existed in another time period, as previous decades were different both technologically and socially. In 1995, the internet technology that we had was much slower and had far few users than it does today. The internet of 1995 was also much different socially because most people were not constantly connected to social media and therefore not used to connecting via social networks that the majority of their family and friends had. There was also different pop culture, and the concept of the internet was a new thing that many people did not understand; many people thought the internet was dangerous or that it would not last as an important part of society. 

In What is Media Archaeology? The Old and the New, author Jussi Parikka proposes that, when we begin thinking media archaeologically, we “start in the middle – from the entanglement of past and present, and accept the complexity this decision brings with it to an analysis of modern media culture.” This quotation means that when engaging with media archaeology we should start in the middle rather than the past or the present, and although this will make things more complex than simply looking back at the past or looking at today’s media, it is necessary to understanding media archaeology because of how the past and the present often merge together. This is seen in my story with the concept of the internet being something new in the 1990’s, but when we look back at how the internet was in 1995 from 2021 it seems so old because it was slow, less advanced than it is today, and the modern websites that we use today such as google, YouTube, and various social media websites did not exist yet. However, the internet of 1995 evolved into the internet of today and the internet that we have now would not exist without these early concepts. My story invites the reader to engage in critical and abstract thinking about media temporalities by provoking them to consider how the websites, online media, and internet culture that we have today only exist as they do due to the technology that we have such as high-speed internet, wi-fi, and smartphones, as well as the technology and internet culture that existed previously. 


# Interactive Timeline

<iframe src='https://cdn.knightlab.com/libs/timeline3/latest/embed/index.html?source=14OKoW1cRduJGlFAKiEayxm1blPQBtS_Ohsv_U38kEM4&font=Default&lang=en&initial_zoom=2&height=650' width='100%' height='650' webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen frameborder='0'></iframe>
